# 1.4 Upgrade Guide

**Please backup before upgrading, execute the following command to upgrade**
`composer require workerman/webman-framework ^1.4.7 && composer require webman/console ^1.2.12 && php webman install`

> **Note**
> If unable to upgrade, it is likely due to the use of the composer proxy. Please use the following command `composer config -g --unset repos.packagist` to restore the use of the official composer data source.

# Features and Changes

## Application Plugins
Version 1.4 supports application plugins, for more information please refer to [Application Plugins](../plugin/app.md).

## Automatic Routing
Version 1.4 supports various complex controller directory rules, for example:
```
app
├── admin
│   └── v1
│       └── v2
│           └── v3
│               └── controller
│                   └── Index.php
└── controller
    ├── v1
    │   └── Index.php
    └── v2
        └── v3
            └── Index.php
```
In other words, the `webman/auto-route` plugin is no longer needed.

## Controller Reuse Switch
Version 1.4 allows for disabling controller reuse. Set `'controller_reuse' => false,` in `config/app.php`, so that each request will reinitialize a new controller. This means that each request will trigger the `__construct()` constructor of the corresponding controller, allowing developers to perform some initialization work before processing each request in the constructor.

Due to the ability to disable controller reuse, the `webman/action-hook` plugin is no longer needed.

## Starting HTTP Service
Version 1.4 supports starting multiple ports to provide HTTP services. See [Slow Business Processing](../others/task.md) for details.

## View File Configuration
The suffix can only be configured in the `options` option of view.php.
**Deprecated usage**
```php
use support\view\Raw;
return [
    'handler' => Raw::class,
    'view_suffix' => '.php'
];
```
**Correct usage**
```php
use support\view\Raw;
return [
    'handler' => Raw::class,
    'options' => [
        'view_suffix' => '.php'
    ]
];
```

## Session Driver Namespace Change
Starting from 1.4.0, webman changed the namespace of the `SessionHandler` class from:
```php
use Webman\FileSessionHandler;  
use Webman\RedisSessionHandler;  
use Webman\RedisClusterSessionHandler;  
```
to:
```php
use Webman\Session\FileSessionHandler;  
use Webman\Session\RedisSessionHandler;  
use Webman\Session\RedisClusterSessionHandler;
```

To avoid direct errors after the upgrade, the `Webman\FileSessionHandler` class is still retained for a period of time and will be completely removed in future versions.

This change affects the `'handler'` configuration in `config/session.php`.
